---
title: Working with Logs
chapter: true
weight: 70
---

# Working with Logs

When it comes to monitoring and understanding complex systems, logs are the go-to observability signal for many reasons. Logs act as a detailed timeline, capturing crucial information about events and activities within a system. They provide timestamps, error messages, and transactional data, offering a comprehensive view of system behavior. By tracing the flow of execution, developers and operators can identify issues and troubleshoot problems effectively.

The flexibility of logs is another advantage. They can be generated by various components of a system, allowing for monitoring and debugging across the entire technology stack. Whether it's servers, applications, or network devices, logs provide insights into different layers of the infrastructure. This versatility enables a holistic approach to observability, ensuring comprehensive monitoring and troubleshooting capabilities.

What makes logs even more appealing is the wide range of tools and frameworks available to support them. Logging libraries exist in most programming languages, simplifying integration into applications. Additionally, logging frameworks and analysis tools provide advanced search, filtering, and visualization functionalities, enabling meaningful insights to be extracted from log data.

Logs' accessibility and simplicity are key factors as well. Stored in plain text format, logs can be easily parsed, analyzed, and understood by both humans and machines. This facilitates collaboration between development and operations teams, promoting effective troubleshooting and knowledge sharing among stakeholders.

Furthermore, logs have an important role in compliance and auditing. By serving as an audit trail, they help organizations meet regulatory requirements, investigate security incidents, and monitor user behavior. The comprehensive record of events captured in logs contributes to accountability, transparency, and system integrity.

## Next you will:

- Utilize Logz.io to
  - Explore logs
  - Create Deployment Markers
  - Search for errors Generated by Product Catalog Service
- Create Alert
